# scope and closure

## ch1 - what is scope

it's all about where these variables "live"
and how does our program find them when it needs them
we need a well defined set of rules for storing variables in some location
and for finding those variables later

those rules are called SCOPE

Javascript is a COMPILED language. even though it has DYNAMIC typing

it is not compiled well in advance, like traditionally compiled langages, not are the results portable among systems.

but the javascript engine performs many of the same steps

Three Steps of Compilation
1. Tokenizing / Lexing
2. Parsing
3. Code-Generation

### Tokenizing/Lexing
breaks up a string of characters into meaningful (to the language) chunks, called tokens
for example
var a = 2;
the tokens will be:
- var
- a
- =
- 2
- ;

whitespace may or may not be persisted as a token, depending on whether or not its meaningful
If the token has stateful parsing rules, then its called LEXING

### Parsing
taking a stream (aka array) of tokens and turning into a tree of nested elements, which represents the grammatical structure of the program
the tree is called AST: Abstract Syntax Tree

### Code Generation
taking the AST and turning into executable code. this varies based on the platform and language.
creates the machine instructions

This was a simple overview. The JS engine does more, like collapsing redudant elements.  JS engines unlike other compliers doesnt get a bunch of time to do all this. often in mere microseconds.

JS compiler will take a program, compile it first, then be ready to execute it

## scope

ENGINE: responsible for start to finish compilation and execution of our JS program
COMPILER: one of ENGINE's friends. Does the parsing and code generation
SCOPE: another friend of ENGINE. collects and maintains a look-up list of all the declared identifiers (variables) and enforces a strict set of rules as to how these are accessible to currently executing code

You need to think like the Engine and the friends think to understand how JS works

compiler will declare variables first, and execute assignment expressions once its executing

LHS look-up is when variable appears on left-hand side of assignement operation
RHS look-up is when a variable appears on teh right hand side of an assignment operation

RHS is basically just a lookup of some value

LDS lookup is trying to find the variable container itself, so that it can assign.

when we do:
```
console.log(a)
```

this reference to `a` is a RHS reference, because nothing is being assigned to `a` here. instead we are looking up to retrieve a value of `a`,

by contrasts
```
a = 2
```
`a` here is a LHS referrence, because we dont care about the current value. we are just using the variable as a target for the `= 2` assignment operation

QUIZ
LHS:
1. var c
2. a = 2
3. b = a

RHS:
1. foo(2)
2. a
3. a
4. b


### Nested scope

Scope is set of rules for looking up some variable by their identifier name. There's usually more than one scope to consider though

Just like a block or function is neste dinstead anotehr block of function, scopes are nested inside other scopes.

if a variable cannot be found in the immediate scope, Engine consults the next outer container scope, until it finds it or the outermost (aka global) scope has been reached


StrictMode disallows automatic/implict global variable creation.
Which means Engine throws a ReferenceError

ReferenceErrors are Scope resolution-failure related

TypeErrors means that Scope resolution was successful, but there was an illegal or impossibel action attempted against the result

### Recap

SCOPE is the set of results that determines where and how a variable (identifier) can be looked up. This look up might be for assigning to the variable (LHS) or simply retreiving it svalue (RHS)

LHS references result from assignment operations. Scope related assignments occure with `=` or by passing arguments to (assign to) function parameters

The JS ENGINE complies code before it executes, so it splits up statuments like `var a = 2` intwo two steps

1. first, `var a ` to delcate it in that Scope. This happens at beginning, before execution
2. LAter, `a = 2` to look up the variable (LHS reference) and assign to it if found

Both LHS and RHS reference looksup start at the currently executing scope, and work their way up.

Unfulfilled RHS references result in ReferenceError being thrown. 
Unfulfilled LHS references result in auto, implicity global of that name (if not strict mode), or ReferenceError if in strict mode






