# Functions vs Block Scope

what exactly makes a new bubble of scope? is it only functions?

functions do create in scope in javascript. but there are other ways.

it doesn't matter WHERE in the scope a declaration appears, the variable or function belongs to the scope bubble, regardless of where it is declared.

principle of least priveldge. reason to "hide" variables and functions inside a function scope

another benefit of "hiding" variables inside a scope is avoid unintended collision between two different variable identifiers with the same name but different intended changes.

collision results in unexpected overwriting of values

a common place collision happens is on the global scope. mulutple libraries can collide if they dont propertly hide their internal/private functions and varaibles

libraries will typically create a sginle variable declation, often an object, with a unique name, in the global scope. this object is then used as a "namespace" for the library, where all specific exposiures are made as properties of that object/namespace, rather than top-level lexcially scoped identifiers themeslves

another modern approach is "MODULE" approach. with modules, no libraries ever add any identifiers to the global scope. instead required to have their identifiers be explicilty imported into another specific scope through the usage of the dependency mangers mechanisms

always code defensively


## functions as scope

IIFEs are not treated as a standard declarion. They are treated as function expresion.

if the `function` is the first part of the statement, its a function declarion. otherwise its a function expression.

Anonymous function expressions, because function has no name identifier on it. Function expressions can be anonymous, but function declarations have to include a name

drawbacks of anonymous functions
1. no useful name in stack traces, making debugging hard
2. if recursion is needed, arguments.callee is needed
3. makes code harder to read

use innline function expression.


IFFE is an immediately invokved function expression


## blocks as scope

many other languages support block level soping
if you declare a variable in a block it will be in the outer enclosure of the block

js can do block scoping with
- with
- try/catch (catch block)
- let

LET

let is another way to declare varaibles
`let` attaches the variable declaration to the scope of whatever block (commonly a {}) pair its contained in. In other words, `let` hijacks any blocks cope for its variable declaration

variables declared with `let` will not hoist to the entire scope of the block they appear in. Such declarations will not observably "exist" in the block until the declaration statement

block scoping is also useful with closures and garbage collection to reclaim memory.

you can declare explicit blocks for variables to locally bind to is a powerful tool, since when you create closures you would have bound the lexical state, and you might not need to do so


also, let really shines in for-loops
it REBINDS to each iteration of the loop



CONST
const is also block scoped but its value is `fixed`
any attempt to change its value results in an TypeError



RECAP


functions are the most common unit of scope in JS.
varaibels and functions that are declared in another function are essentially "hidden" from any of the enclosing scopes, which is an intentional design principle

but functions are not the only unit of scope

block scope refers to idea that variable snad functions can belong to an arbritrary block

try/catch has this in the catch caluse

in es6, let and const allow declarations of variables in any arbitrary block of code

let should not entirely replace var.














